---
title: Lab 7 · Code-First Prompting
description: Run Jupyter Notebooks
---

!!! quote "BY THE END OF THIS SECTION YOU SHOULD HAVE"

    1. Successfully run your first code-first reasoning prompt from Jupyter notebooks
    1. Understood the token counts and performance impacts of reasoning vs. general-purpose models
    1. Explored various text scenarios interactively to build intuition for code-first usage
    1. A "sandbox" notebook that you can quickly use to explore scenarios & prompt engineering

!!! info "REMINDER: These models are stochastic. Your response may not match the sample exactly"

---

## 1. Get Started With Notebooks

In this section, we'll move from Playground (low-code) to SDK (code-first) and see how we can working with reasoning models directly from Jupyter Notebooks.

!!! quote "**HOW TO RUN A JUPYTER NOTEBOOK**"

      This codespaces is setup with the extensions and environment to make it easy.

      1. Click the notebook in the File Explorer → opens it in editor
      1. Click **Select Kernel** → pick the default Python environment
      1. Click **Clear all Outputs** → just in case prior run outputs existed
      1. Click **Run all** → this will execute all the exercises at one shot

!!! quote "**HOW TO USE A JUPYTER NOTEBOOK**"

      After a "Run all" you can interactively reviw the notebook cells:

      - Read the **markdown cell** to know what that code does
      - See the **code cell** to learn how that was implemented
      - See the **code output** area to see execution responses
      - **Important**: See the **execution time** per cell (intuitive response time).

This lets you do two things:

1. Ensure that the notebook executes first (and debug errors)
1. Change any single cell (code) and re-run it (to build intution)

**Ready? Let's go!**

---

## 1. Notebook 1: Validate

!!! quote "OBJECTIVE: Validate development environment. Understand output format"

1. Open the VS Code editor to the `notebooks` folder.
1. Click on `00-setup-aoai.ipynb` using instructions above.
1. Verify all cells ran without error.

**Now, let's talk about what you learned in this notebook**

1. We tested an older reasoning model (o1)
1. We tested a newer reasoning model (o4-mini)
1. We tested a general-purpose model (gpt-4o-mini)
1. We printed out the response **and usage stats** for each.

!!! quote "EXAMPLE OUTPUT: Pay attention to response accuracy and token costs"

=== "gpt-4o-mini"

      **How many r's in strawberry?**

      ```title="" linenums="0"
      🗣️ gpt-4o-mini returned:
      There are three 'r's in the word "strawberry."
      .........................
      Token Costs:
      Total Tokens: 29
      Prompt Tokens: 14
      Completion Tokens: 15
      Reasoning Tokens: 0
      Output Tokens: 29
      .........................
      Content Filter Results:
      protected_material_code: {'filtered': False, 'detected': False}
      protected_material_text: {'filtered': False, 'detected': False}
      .........................
      ```

=== "o1"

      **How many r's in strawberry?**

      ```title="" linenums="0"
      🗣️ o1 returned:
      There are 3 “r” letters in “strawberry.”
      .........................
      Token Costs:
      Total Tokens: 294
      Prompt Tokens: 13
      Completion Tokens: 281
      Reasoning Tokens: 256
      Output Tokens: 38
      .........................
      Content Filter Results:
      hate: {'filtered': False, 'severity': 'safe'}
      protected_material_code: {'filtered': False, 'detected': False}
      protected_material_text: {'filtered': False, 'detected': False}
      self_harm: {'filtered': False, 'severity': 'safe'}
      sexual: {'filtered': False, 'severity': 'safe'}
      violence: {'filtered': False, 'severity': 'safe'}
      .........................
      ```

=== "o4-mini"

      **How many r's in strawberry?**

      ```title="" linenums="0"
      🗣️ o4-mini returned:
      The word “strawberry” has three “r” letters.
      .........................
      Token Costs:
      Total Tokens: 304
      Prompt Tokens: 13
      Completion Tokens: 291
      Reasoning Tokens: 256
      Output Tokens: 48
      .........................
      Content Filter Results:
      hate: {'filtered': False, 'severity': 'safe'}
      protected_material_code: {'filtered': False, 'detected': False}
      protected_material_text: {'filtered': False, 'detected': False}
      self_harm: {'filtered': False, 'severity': 'safe'}
      sexual: {'filtered': False, 'severity': 'safe'}
      violence: {'filtered': False, 'severity': 'safe'}
      .........................
      ```

---

## 2. Notebook 2: Quickstart

!!! quote "OBJECTIVE: Explore different use cases. Build intuition for model Response, Token Costs"

1. Open the VS Code editor to the `notebooks` folder.
1. Click on `01-text-reasoning.ipynb` using instructions above.
1. Verify all cells ran without error.


---

## 4. Homework: Build Intuition


!!! quote "OBJECTIVE: Put these learnings to use with these notebooks as your sandbox!"

    1. Each notebook has a final cell with an area for you to try your own prompt
    1. Fill in a prompt - and run **just that cell**. Observe outcome
    1. Try changing parameters - **observe impact on response and token costs**
    1. Build intuition for a specific model or use case - by trying things out!

Think of problems in areas like:

   - Logic and deduction · `A farmer has 17 sheep. All but 9 run away. How many are left?` · This is about ability to interpret word problems, and not the math itself.
   - Cause and effect · `If the power goes out during a storm, what are three possible consequences in a modern household?` · Tests causal reasoning and practical inference
   - Pattern recognition · `A dog is to bark as a cat is to __?` · Tests analogy and associative reasoning
   - Counterfactual or hypothetical thinking · `Imagine a world where people need just 4 hours of sleep. How does this impact our work and school lives? Discuss the benefits and drawbacks and back this up with research.` · Tests deep research.

---